Add log enrichment use case to Data Prepper (#6225)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _data-prepper/common-use-cases/log-enrichment.md

---
layout: default
title: Log enrichment with Data Prepper
parent: Common use cases
nav_order: 50
---

# Log enrichment with Data Prepper

You can perform different types of log enrichment with Data Prepper, including:

> - Filtering

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Filtering.
```

- Extracting key-value pairs from strings 
- Mutating events
- Mutating strings
- Converting lists to maps
- Processing incoming timestamps

## Filtering

Use the [Drop events]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/drop-events/) processor to filter out specific log events before sending them to a sink. For example, say you're collecting web request logs and only want to store unsuccessful requests. You create the following pipeline, which drops any requests where the response is less than 400 so that only log events with HTTP status codes 400 and above remain.

```json
log-pipeline:
  source:
  ...
  processor:
    - grok:
        match:
          log: [ "%{COMMONAPACHELOG_DATATYPED}" ]
    - drop:
        drop_when: "/response < 400"
  sink:
    - opensearch:
        ...
        index: failure_logs
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

The `drop_when` option specifies which evens to drop from the pipeline.

## Extracting key-value pairs from strings

> Log data often includes strings of key-value pairs. One common scenario is an HTTP query string. For example, if a web user queries a pageable URL, the HTTP logs might have the following HTTP query string:

Reviewer 2: Probably "URL that can be paginated" to avoid the build error.

> Log data often includes strings of key-value pairs. One common scenario is an HTTP query string. For example, if a web user queries a URL that can be paginated, the HTTP logs might have the following HTTP query string:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Log data often includes strings of key-value pairs. For example, if a user queries a URL that can be paginated, the HTTP logs might contain the following HTTP query string:
```

```json
pipeline
 ...
  processor:
    - grok:
      match:
        message: [ "%{COMMONAPACHELOG_DATATYPED}" ]
    - split_string:
      entries:
        - source: request
          delimiter: "?"
    - key_value:
      source: "/request/1"
      field_split_characters: "&"
      value_split_characters: "="
      destination: query_params
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Mutating events

The different [Mutate event]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/mutate-event/) processors let you rename, copy, add, and delete event entries.

In this example, the first processor sets the value of the `debug` key to `true` if the key already exists in the event. The second processor only sets the `debug` key to `true` if the key doesn't exist in the event, because `overwrite_if_key_exists` is set to `true`.

```json
...
processor:
  - add_entries:
    entries:
    - key: "debug"
      value: true 
...
processor:
  - add_entries:
    entries:
    - key: "debug"
      value: true 
      overwrite_if_key_exists: true
...
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> You can also use a format string to construct new entries from existing entries. For example, `${date}-${time}` will create a new entry based on the values of the existing entries `date` and `time`.

Reviewer: "existing `date` and `time` entries"?

For example, the following pipeline adds new event entries dynamically from existing events:

```json
processor:
  - add_entries:
    entries:
    - key: "key_three"
      format: "${key_one}-${key_two}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> For example, consider the following incoming event:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider the following incoming event:
```

> For example, consider the following incoming event:

Reviewer: Removed "For example" here to avoid repetition from the preceding sentence.

```json
{
   "key_one": "value_one",
   "key_two": "value_two"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The processor transforms it into an event with a new key `key_three`, which combines values of other keys in the original event, as shown in the following example:

Reviewer: "a new key named `key_three`"?

```json
{
   "key_one": "value_one",
   "key_two": "value_two",
   "key_three": "value_one-value_two"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Mutating strings

> The various [Mutate string]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/mutate-string/) processors offer tools to manipulate strings in incoming data. For example, if you need to split a string into an array, use the `split_string` processor:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The various [Mutate string]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/mutate-string/) processors offer tools that you can use to manipulate strings in incoming data. For example, if you need to split a string into an array, you can use the `split_string` processor:
```

```json
...
processor:
  - split_string:
    entries:
    - source: "message"
      delimiter: "&"
...
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

The processor will transform a string such as `a&b&c` into `["a", "b", "c"]`.

## Converting lists to maps

> The [List-to-map]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/list-to-map/) processor, which is one of the Mutate events processors, converts a list of objects in an event to a map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [List-to-map]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/list-to-map/) processor, which is one of the Mutate event processors, converts a list of objects in an event to a map.
```

> The [List-to-map]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/list-to-map/) processor, which is one of the Mutate events processors, converts a list of objects in an event to a map.

Reviewer: Can "Mutate event" be formatted so as to avoid any mid-sentence capitalization confusion? Last phrase: "converts a list of event objects to a map"?

Author: In researching the naming convention "mutate event processor," I didn't come across it as a proper name. Instead, it appears as a common name for processors that convert an event.

For example, consider the following processor configuration:

```json
...
processor:
    - list_to_map:
        key: "name"
        source: "A-car-as-list"
        target: "A-car-as-map"
        value_key: "value"
        flatten: true
...
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

This processor will convert an event that contains a list of objects like this:

```json
{
  "A-car-as-list": [
    {
      "name": "make",
      "value": "tesla"
    },
    {
      "name": "model",
      "value": "model 3"
    },
    {
      "name": "color",
      "value": "white"
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> into a map:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to a map:
```

> into a map:

Reviewer: I'm not a huge fan of splitting sentences over multiple lines, but I'll defer to you if this is best practice.

```json
{
  "A-car-as-map": {
    "make": "tesla",
    "model": "model 3",
    "color": "white"
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> As another example, say you have an incoming event with the following structure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As another example, consider an incoming event with the following structure:
```

    },
    {
      "somekey" : "b",
      "somevalue" : "val-b3",
      "anothervalue" : "val-b4"
    },
    {
      "somekey" : "c",
      "somevalue" : "val-c1",
      "anothervalue" : "val-c2"
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

You can define the following options in the processor configuration:

```json
...
processor:            
    - list_to_map:
        key: "somekey"
        source: "mylist"
        target: "myobject"
        value_key: "value"
        flatten: true
...
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

The processor modifies the event by removing `mylist` and adding the new `myobject` object:

```json
{
  "myobject" : {
    "a" : [
      {
        "somekey" : "a",
        "somevalue" : "val-a1",
        "anothervalue" : "val-a2"
      }  
    ],
    "b" : [
      {
        "somekey" : "b",
        "somevalue" : "val-b1",
        "anothervalue" : "val-b2"
      },
      {
        "somekey" : "b",
        "somevalue" : "val-b3",
        "anothervalue" : "val-b4"
      }
    "c" : [
      {
        "somekey" : "c",
        "somevalue" : "val-c1",
        "anothervalue" : "val-c2"
      }  
    ]
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> In many cases, you might want to flatten the array for each key. In these situations, you must choose only one object to remain. The processor offers the choice of either first or last.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In many cases, you may want to flatten the array for each key. In these situations, you must choose only one object to retain. The processor offers a choice of either first or last.
```

> In many cases, you might want to flatten the array for each key. In these situations, you must choose only one object to remain. The processor offers the choice of either first or last.

Reviewer: Should this sentence end with a colon?

```json
...
processor:
    - list_to_map:
        key: "somekey"
        source: "mylist"
        target: "myobject"
        flatten: true
...
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

The incoming event structure is then flattened accordingly:

```json
{
  "myobject" : {
    "a" : {
      "somekey" : "a",
      "somevalue" : "val-a1",
      "anothervalue" : "val-a2"
    },
    "b" : {
      "somekey" : "b",
      "somevalue" : "val-b1",
      "anothervalue" : "val-b2"
    }
    "c" : {
      "somekey" : "c",
      "somevalue" : "val-c1",
      "anothervalue" : "val-c2"
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Processing incoming timestamps

> The [Date]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/date/) processor parses the timestamp key from incoming events by converting it to ISO 8601 format.

Reviewer: Should we define International Organization for Standardization (ISO)?

> The [Date]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/date/) processor parses the timestamp key from incoming events by converting it to ISO 8601 format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Date]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/date/) processor parses the timestamp key from incoming events by converting it to ISO 8601 format:
```

```json
...
  processor:          
    - date:
        match:
          - key: timestamp
            patterns: ["dd/MMM/yyyy:HH:mm:ss"] 
        destination: "@timestamp"
        source_timezone: "America/Los_Angeles"
        destination_timezone: "America/Chicago"
        locale: "en_US"
...
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

If the preceding pipeline processes the following event:

```json
{"timestamp": "10/Feb/2000:13:55:36"}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> It converts the event into the following format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It converts the event to the following format:
```

```json
{
  "timestamp":"10/Feb/2000:13:55:36",
  "@timestamp":"2000-02-10T15:55:36.000-06:00"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Generating timestamps

> The Date processor can generate timestamps for incoming events if you specify `@timestamp` for the `destination` option.

Reviewer: Can "Date processor" be formatted so as to avoid any mid-sentence capitalization confusion?

> The Date processor can generate timestamps for incoming events if you specify `@timestamp` for the `destination` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Date processor can generate timestamps for incoming events if you specify `@timestamp` for the `destination` option:
```

```json
...
    processor:
    - date:
        from_time_received: true
        destination: "@timestamp"
...
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

### Deriving punctuation patterns

> The [Substitute string]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/substitute-string/) processor (which is one of the Mutate string processors) lets you derive a punctuation pattern from incoming events. In the following example pipeline, the processor will scan incoming Apache log events and derive punctuation patterns from them.

Reviewer: Can "Mutate string" be formatted so as to avoid any mid-sentence capitalization confusion?

> The [Substitute string]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/substitute-string/) processor (which is one of the Mutate string processors) lets you derive a punctuation pattern from incoming events. In the following example pipeline, the processor will scan incoming Apache log events and derive punctuation patterns from them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Substitute string]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/substitute-string/) processor (which is one of the Mutate string processors) lets you derive a punctuation pattern from incoming events. In the following example pipeline, the processor will scan incoming Apache log events and derive punctuation patterns from them:
```
